{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Of course, Prashanth would have preferred to be at his virtual refuge, where he usually can be found on Saturdays at this time, discussing technological advances of the week with his American friends. He had earned his respect in that virtual world by being able to consistently deliver a broad yet sufficiently deep critique of competing gadgets and gizmos, from computer games, to cameras to PCs to Japanese robots. His specialisation in Marvel Comics, the characters, the history, and the paradoxes, ensured that he was always able to add value to discussions with his co-e-inhabitants. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Mr. and Mrs. Menon may not have understood what Prashanth did on his computer, but they were convinced that his dedication would ultimately develop a talent, and a lucrative one at that. Of course, Mrs. Menon would have happily re-distributed Prashanth\'92s Computer Science mark surplus across English Literature and History, being a History major herself, while Mr. Menon would have preferred a stronger performance in every subject. But when Prashanth helped Mr. and Mrs. Menons\'92 neighbours and friends with their computer troubleshooting leaving them feeling obliged to the Menons, it often translated to a new vase, an invitation to dinner or the helpful dispersion of good-will for the family. And for that, Mrs. Anita Menon and Mr. Shashi Menon did not interfere.
\f2\fs28 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
}