{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset204 PTSans-NarrowBold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red25\green84\blue128;\red251\green252\blue252;\red45\green45\blue44;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl576\sa153

\f0\b\fs38 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 The Ten Steps of Design\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\f1\fs30 \cf4 \strokec4 But before you start writing,
\b0 \'a0you need to get organized. You need to put all those wonderful ideas down on paper in a form you can use. Why? Because your memory is fallible, and your creativity has probably left a lot of holes in your story \'97 holes you need to fill in before you start writing your novel. You need a design document. And you need to produce it using a process that doesn\'92t kill your desire to actually write the story. Here is my ten-step process for writing a design document. I use this process for writing my novels, and I hope it will help you.\

\b Step 1)
\b0 \'a0Take an hour and write a one-sentence summary of your novel. Something like this: \'93A rogue physicist travels back in time to kill the apostle Paul.\'94 (This is the summary for my first novel, Transgression.) The sentence will serve you forever as a ten-second selling tool. This is the big picture, the analog of that big starting triangle in the snowflake picture.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300
\cf4 \cb3 When you later write your book proposal, this sentence should appear very early in the proposal. It\'92s the hook that will sell your book to your editor, to your committee, to the sales force, to bookstore owners, and ultimately to readers. So make the best one you can!\cb1 \
\cb3 Some hints on what makes a good sentence:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\sa288
\ls1\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Shorter is better. Try for fewer than 15 words.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 No character names, please! Better to say \'93a handicapped trapeze artist\'94 than \'93Jane Doe\'94.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Tie together the big picture and the personal picture. Which character has the most to lose in this story? Now tell me what he or she wants to win.\cb1 \
\ls1\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Read the one-line blurbs on the New York Times Bestseller list to learn how to do this. Writing a one-sentence description is an art form.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\b\fs30 \cf4 \cb3 Step 2)
\b0 \'a0Take another hour and expand that sentence to a full paragraph describing the story setup, major disasters, and ending of the novel. This is the analog of the second stage of the snowflake. I like to structure a story as \'93three disasters plus an ending\'94. Each of the disasters takes a quarter of the book to develop and the ending takes the final quarter. I don\'92t know if this is the ideal structure, it\'92s just my personal taste.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300
\cf4 \cb3 If you believe in the Three-Act structure, then the first disaster corresponds to the end of Act 1. The second disaster is the mid-point of Act 2. The third disaster is the end of Act 2, and forces Act 3 which wraps things up. It is OK to have the first disaster be caused by external circumstances, but I think that the second and third disasters should be caused by the protagonist\'92s attempts to \'93fix things\'94. Things just get worse and worse.\cb1 \
\cb3 You can also use this paragraph in your proposal. Ideally, your paragraph will have about five sentences. One sentence to give me the backdrop and story setup. Then one sentence each for your three disasters. Then one more sentence to tell the ending. Don\'92t confuse this paragraph with the back-cover copy for your book. This paragraph summarizes the whole story. Your back-cover copy should summarize only about the first quarter of the story.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\b \cf4 \cb3 Step 3)
\b0 \'a0The above gives you a high-level view of your novel. Now you need something similar for the storylines of each of your characters. Characters are the most important part of any novel, and the time you invest in designing them up front will pay off ten-fold when you start writing. For each of your major characters, take an hour and write a one-page summary sheet that tells:\cb1 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\sa288
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs32 \cf4 \cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The character\'92s name\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 A one-sentence summary of the character\'92s storyline\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The character\'92s motivation (what does he/she want abstractly?)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The character\'92s goal (what does he/she want concretely?)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The character\'92s conflict (what prevents him/her from reaching this goal?)\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 The character\'92s epiphany (what will he/she learn, how will he/she change?\cb1 \
\ls2\ilvl0\cb3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 A one-paragraph summary of the character\'92s storyline\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\b\fs30 \cf4 \cb3 An important point:
\b0 \'a0You may find that you need to go back and revise your one-sentence summary and/or your one-paragraph summary. Go ahead! This is good\'96it means your characters are teaching you things about your story. It\'92s always okay at any stage of the design process to go back and revise earlier stages. In fact, it\'92s not just okay\'96it\'92s inevitable. And it\'92s good. Any revisions you make now are revisions you won\'92t need to make later on to a clunky 400 page manuscript.\cb1 \

\b \cb3 Another important point:
\b0 \'a0It doesn\'92t have to be perfect. The purpose of each step in the design process is to advance you to the next step. Keep your forward momentum! You can always come back later and fix it when you understand the story better. You will do this too, unless you\'92re a lot smarter than I am.\cb1 \

\b \cb3 Step 4)
\b0 \'a0By this stage, you should have a good idea of the large-scale structure of your novel, and you have only spent a day or two. Well, truthfully, you may have spent as much as a week, but it doesn\'92t matter. If the story is broken, you know it now, rather than after investing 500 hours in a rambling first draft. So now just keep growing the story. Take several hours and expand each sentence of your summary paragraph into a full paragraph. All but the last paragraph should end in a disaster. The final paragraph should tell how the book ends.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300
\cf4 \cb3 This is a lot of fun, and at the end of the exercise, you have a pretty decent one-page skeleton of your novel. It\'92s okay if you can\'92t get it all onto one single-spaced page. What matters is that you are growing the ideas that will go into your story. You are expanding the conflict. You should now have a synopsis suitable for a proposal, although there is a better alternative for proposals . . .\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\b \cf4 \cb3 Step 5)
\b0 \'a0Take a day or two and write up a one-page description of each major character and a half-page description of the other important characters. These \'93character synopses\'94 should tell the story from the point of view of each character. As always, feel free to cycle back to the earlier steps and make revisions as you learn cool stuff about your characters. I usually enjoy this step the most and lately, I have been putting the resulting \'93character synopses\'94 into my proposals instead of a plot-based synopsis. Editors love character synopses, because editors love character-based fiction.\cb1 \

\b \cb3 Step 6)
\b0 \'a0By now, you have a solid story and several story-threads, one for each character. Now take a week and expand the one-page plot synopsis of the novel to a four-page synopsis. Basically, you will again be expanding each paragraph from step (4) into a full page. This is a lot of fun, because you are figuring out the high-level logic of the story and making strategic decisions. Here, you will definitely want to cycle back and fix things in the earlier steps as you gain insight into the story and new ideas whack you in the face.\cb1 \

\b \cb3 Step 7)
\b0 \'a0Take another week and expand your character descriptions into full-fledged character charts detailing everything there is to know about each character. The standard stuff such as birthdate, description, history, motivation, goal, etc. Most importantly, how will this character change by the end of the novel? This is an expansion of your work in step (3), and it will teach you a lot about your characters. You will probably go back and revise steps (1-6) as your characters become \'93real\'94 to you and begin making petulant demands on the story. This is good \'97 great fiction is character-driven. Take as much time as you need to do this, because you\'92re just saving time downstream. When you have finished this process, (and it may take a full month of solid effort to get here), you have most of what you need to write a proposal. If you are a published novelist, then you can write a proposal now and sell your novel before you write it. If you\'92re not yet published, then you\'92ll need to write your entire novel first before you can sell it. No, that\'92s not fair, but life isn\'92t fair and the world of fiction writing is especially unfair.\cb1 \

\b \cb3 Step 8)
\b0 \'a0You may or may not take a hiatus here, waiting for the book to sell. At some point, you\'92ve got to actually write the novel. Before you do that, there are a couple of things you can do to make that traumatic first draft easier. The first thing to do is to take that four-page synopsis and make a list of all the scenes that you\'92ll need to turn the story into a novel. And the easiest way to make that list is . . . with a spreadsheet.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300
\cf4 \cb3 For some reason, this is scary to a lot of writers. Oh the horror. Deal with it. You learned to use a word-processor. Spreadsheets are easier. You need to make a list of scenes, and spreadsheets were invented for making lists. If you need some tutoring, buy a book. There are a thousand out there, and one of them will work for you. It should take you less than a day to learn the itty bit you need. It\'92ll be the most valuable day you ever spent. Do it.\cb1 \
\cb3 Make a spreadsheet detailing the scenes that emerge from your four-page plot outline. Make just one line for each scene. In one column, list the POV character. In another (wide) column, tell what happens. If you want to get fancy, add more columns that tell you how many pages you expect to write for the scene. A spreadsheet is ideal, because you can see the whole storyline at a glance, and it\'92s easy to move scenes around to reorder things.\cb1 \
\cb3 My spreadsheets usually wind up being over 100 lines long, one line for each scene of the novel. As I develop the story, I make new versions of my story spreadsheet. This is incredibly valuable for analyzing a story. It can take a week to make a good spreadsheet. When you are done, you can add a new column for chapter numbers and assign a chapter to each scene.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\b \cf4 \cb3 Step 9)
\b0 \'a0(Optional. I don\'92t do this step anymore.) Switch back to your word processor and begin writing a narrative description of the story. Take each line of the spreadsheet and expand it to a multi-paragraph description of the scene. Put in any cool lines of dialogue you think of, and sketch out the essential conflict of that scene. If there\'92s no conflict, you\'92ll know it here and you should either add conflict or scrub the scene.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300
\cf4 \cb3 I used to write either one or two pages per chapter, and I started each chapter on a new page. Then I just printed it all out and put it in a loose-leaf notebook, so I could easily swap chapters around later or revise chapters without messing up the others. This process usually took me a week and the end result was a massive 50-page printed document that I would revise in red ink as I wrote the first draft. All my good ideas when I woke up in the morning got hand-written in the margins of this document. This, by the way, is a rather painless way of writing that dreaded detailed synopsis that all writers seem to hate. But it\'92s actually fun to develop, if you have done steps (1) through (8) first. When I did this step, I never showed this synopsis to anyone, least of all to an editor \'97 it was for me alone. I liked to think of it as the prototype first draft. Imagine writing a first draft in a week! Yes, you can do it and it\'92s well worth the time. But I\'92ll be honest, I don\'92t feel like I need this step anymore, so I don\'92t do it now.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300

\b \cf4 \cb3 Step 10)
\b0 \'a0At this point, just sit down and start pounding out the real first draft of the novel. You will be astounded at how fast the story flies out of your fingers at this stage. I have seen writers triple their fiction writing speed overnight, while producing better quality first drafts than they usually produce on a third draft.\cb1 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl420\sa300
\cf4 \cb3 You might think that all the creativity is chewed out of the story by this time. Well, no, not unless you overdid your analysis when you wrote your Snowflake. This is supposed to be the fun part, because there are many small-scale logic problems to work out here. How does Hero get out of that tree surrounded by alligators and rescue Heroine who\'92s in the burning rowboat? This is the time to figure it out! But it\'92s fun because you already know that the large-scale structure of the novel works. So you only have to solve a limited set of problems, and so you can write relatively fast.\cb1 \
\cb3 This stage is incredibly fun and exciting. I have heard many fiction writers complain about how hard the first draft is. Invariably, that\'92s because they have no clue what\'92s coming next. Good grief! Life is too short to write like that! There is no reason to spend 500 hours writing a wandering first draft of your novel when you can write a solid one in 150. Counting the 100 hours it takes to do the design documents, you come out way ahead in time.\cb1 \
\cb3 About midway through a first draft, I usually take a breather and fix all the broken parts of my design documents. Yes, the design documents are not perfect. That\'92s okay. The design documents are not fixed in concrete, they are a living set of documents that grows as you develop your novel. If you are doing your job right, at the end of the first draft you will laugh at what an amateurish piece of junk your original design documents were. And you\'92ll be thrilled at how deep your story has become.\cb1 \
}