{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 A gap was closing quickly between a string of buses on one side of the road and a drifting cow on the other. Mr. Sashi Menon had to decide if his Maruti could make it through. The horn did not seem to bother either so Mr. Menon decided to make a dash for it. Prashanth gulped a large quantity of air; his fingers found their way through the ripped car seat and were tugging at the foam under. Mr. Menon, firmly depressing the horn with one palm, the accelerator with one leg, and bellowing a long curse in Malayalam, made it through the two obstinate road-users with no casualties except for a gentle smack that the Maruti bestowed on the cow's hind. Prashanth let out a loud sigh. He knew that his father would have several more such challenges to overcome before their Maruti could enter the Bangalore Airport.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 Mr. Menon was very aware of the challenges and his body responded; his eyes squinted through his glasses, dividing his forehead along four deep creases; the hair on his ears and nose sprung out, whisker-like, trying to act as antennae for additional input; his forehead divided itself along 4 deep creases; his face moved closer and closer to the windshield, pulling with it his bum to the edge of the seat; and his tongue churned out constant Malayali non-pleasantry chatter.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 Mr. Menon noticed Prashanth staring at him, and directed some of the non-pleasantries at his son. Prashanth quickly turned and continued negotiating right-of-way with other motorists, cart-pushers, pedestrians, cows and dogs.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0When the cursing subsided, Prashanth looked back at his father. He tried to picture a younger Mr. Menon, one that had his wits and hair about him. A smile was slowly forming on Prashanth\'92s face as he dressed up the mental image of Mr. Menon-of-the-early-70s in a tight brown shirt with brown bell-bottom pants and an over-sized belt buckle on a brown belt. He added extra large brown sun glasses and un-hooked the first three buttons of the shirt to reveal a newly formed tuft of hair entangled in a shining gold chain. The smile broadened to a grin when he gave the image two large triangular side-burns covering both cheeks. When the image started doing a pelvic thrust in time with an Elvis tune, he let out a muted shriek, which he quickly camouflaged with forced coughs.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"Pull your window up. The rain is pouring in and you're catching a damn cold!" Mr. Menon snapped.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0"Yes pa." Prashanth reluctantly wound the glass up but not all the way up. He knew that he could not afford to deprive his father of any available sensory assistance, especially with visual assistance already compromised by the torrent of rain assaulting the wiper-less windshield.
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26 \'a0
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26 \'a0\'a0\'a0Apart from occasional opportunistic dashes through gaps in the road, the Maruti was creeping slowly through the dark wet roads. The tall street lights lining Airport Road were rendered impotent by the storm that had knocked out power supply in the area. They swayed gently with the winds and looked blindly down at the chaos that the rains had infected on the road-users. Occasional lightning strikes revealed miniature cars and buses thrashing about, jostling for pieces of the road, winning some here and conceding some there.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Prashanth would later reflect on this exact moment in time, conjuring up the sounds of the thunder and winds, the flashes of lightning and the unrelenting rain and would think to himself how appropriately the Gods of the heavens had announced the impending chain of events that would change his life forever.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Prashanth\'92s phone began to ring, much to the driver\'92s annoyance. For someone who worked the keyboard with such ease, Prashanth had surprisingly clumsy fingers. After a minute of fumbling around in his pocket, which the caller must have anticipated because the ringing Spiderman theme did not relent, he answered the phone.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'93Have they arrived?\'94 Pinky asked.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'93No, and it\'92s raining. And poor dad\'92s driving\'85\'94
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'93Call me when they get there,\'94 she interrupted and hung up.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'93Oh poor dad is not feeling well, and he still came out to pick up your friends,\'94 Prashanth pretended to speak into the phone, \'93and his leg had still not healed, you better be thankful\'94. With that performance, he pretended to end the call and looked up at his father.\uc0\u8232 
\f1\fs24 \

\f0\fs26  \'a0\'a0\'a0"Pa shall I..." the words didn't come out confidently enough. Prashanth cleared his throat and tried again, "... Pa, can I drive?"
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0"You don't have enough experience to drive in this weather."
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0"Pa but you've taught me so well," Prashanth said, appealing to his father's ego.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0"No da. Some other day."
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0"Pleeease pa, you keep saying I need to challenge myself" he pleaded. Mr. Menon did not answer for a few minutes but Prashanth was used to that. "I'll drive very carefully pa. I think it will be a good learning experience for me," Prashanth lied, having gained most of his driving experience from their driver. Another few minutes passed. A motorist was told in Malayalam that he was an idiot.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"Drive very carefully okay? And remember everything I taught you." Mr. Menon was of course very relieved that he did not have to drive. "But don't tell Amma anything okay? She will unnecessarily get upset."
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0"Yes pa." Mr. Menon pulled up on the side of the road, and father and son exchanged places.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"This will build character, not sitting in front of that useless computer twenty-four hours a day. You remember which one is the clutch and which one is the accelerator?"
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0"Yes pa."
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0The relieved Maruti, having been subjected to jerky starts and stops, now smoothly sailed through the watery roads. Mr. Menon was pleasantly surprised at his son's skill, but lest he get complacent, he continued to bark at him, warning him of the rubbish bin on the side of the road ahead (which Prashanth could see was in fact a parked car), shouting at him for driving too close to another car, driving too fast and occasionally too slow.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"You'll break my gear box!" he growled when Prashanth changed gears "roughly". But Prashanth knew it was going well.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0As they approached the airport, Mr. Menon exchanged places with his under-aged son. 
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"
\i Anita will kill me if she finds out that Prashanth drove
\i0 ," Mr. Menon thought to himself. He physically shook the thought off and with it the umbrella before walking into the arrival terminal and heading towards his usual row of seats. Prashanth knew the drill; he had been to the airport many times with his father. He was carrying under his armpit a white cardboard sheet on which he had written "Welcome to Bangalore Ben & Cathy -- the Menons". He headed straight for the coffee counter. He bought two piping hot coffees and started walking to where his dad would be seated. As he approached his father, he looked up but was not prepared for what he was about to see.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \'a0\'a0\'a0\'a0His hands went into a frenzy sending the coffee airborne. When the hot coffee came down, the rest of his body went into a frenzy and a loud muted shrill announced the minor burns. He had looked up to see his all-time super-star cricket batting hero, Rahul Dravid, sitting next to his father, not in two dimensions as he did every morning behind his room door, but in three, in flesh!
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Mr. Menon was glaring at his clumsy son. His jaws were tightly clenched shut, and his lips had parted just enough to reveal teeth and gums in a display of primitive threat. Prashanth took a step forward but turned around and walked to the bathroom. He splashed water over his face and stared at himself in the mirror, willing his throbbing temples to slow down. After what seemed like forever, he gained control of his heart rate, and started focusing on treating his reddening skin with cold water.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0When he walked back, Mr. Dravid was still there. Mr. Menon saw his son approaching and pointed to the coffee counter. Prashanth turned back and quickly brought two more coffees.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"Rahul, would you like one?" Mr. Menon asked, turning to Mr. Dravid and offering him Prashanth\'92s coffee.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"No" came a sudden response, without even so much as eye contact.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"You know Mr. Varun Kohli, Rahul? I believe he was your neighbour's accountant. He used to visit your neighbours every month.\'94
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0No answer.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Prashanth, and for that matter - Mrs. Preeti Menon & Pinky, were always extra vigilant when Mr. Menon\'92s ego was under threat. Prashanth gulped air and choked on it, as he usually does when he gets nervous. He knew that he only had minutes to repair his father\'92s ego.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0"Don't be a snob Rahul, I'm from your school", Prashanth said in a short sharp tone.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Mr. Dravid turned to Mr. Menon. He smiled lightly, got up and walked away.
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl480

\f0\fs26 \cf2  \'a0\'a0\'a0Before Mr. Menon could react, Prashanth darted up, turned around and jogged away from the seats mumbling something about checking the arrival time of the flight. He was walking fast enough to put himself out of ear-shot when Mr. Menon's words were finally ready for him. "
\i That flight better arrive soon
\i0 ," he thought and looked up at the white notice board. He stared at it for a while in disbelief. He re-read it. Again. "Shit!"
\f1\fs24 \
}