{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf130
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Ray was turning eight years old and was playing with his iPad, lying in his parent\'92s room when the baby started crying across the hall. Cathy and Ben both sighed and looked at each other. \'93
\i I\'92ll
\i0  put her back to sleep\'94 Ray said slowly and put his iPad down. He walked over to the baby\'92s room.\
Baby Ruby\'92s pacifier had fallen on her chest and she could not sleep without it. Ray picked it up and placed it gently in her mouth. When she realised it was back, the crying suddenly and she looked up at her brother.\
Ray was always fascinated by Ruby. He stared at her round cheeks, reddened somewhat by the crying. Her fingers were so tiny and pale. He carefully separated out the index finger from the others and he looked at it carefully. She didn\'92t seem to mind. In fact, she loved his company. On most days, he could entertain her for hours, with funny faces and sudden sounds. But today, he just wanted to look at her, and she was content with looking at him.\
\
About fifteen minutes has passed. Ray went back to his parents\'92 bedroom and lay down next to his mother. She was scrolling on her phone. \'93Mom, can I ask you something?\'94 he said, getting her attention.\
\'93Why do I look so different from Ruby and the two of you?\'94\
Cathy pulled Rahman into her chest and squeezed him.}